---
layout: post
title: Weighing Piles of Coins
---


There are two kinds of coins, genuine and counterfeit.  A genuine coin weighs X grams and a counterfeit coin weighs X+delta grams, where X is a positive integer and delta is a non-zero real number strictly between -5 and +5.  You are presented with 13 piles of 4 coins each.  All of the coins are genuine, except for one pile, in which all 4 coins are counterfeit.  You are given a precise scale (say, a digital scale capable of displaying any real number).  You are to determine three things: X, delta, and which pile contains the counterfeit coins.  But you’re only allowed to use the scale twice!

## Discussion:

This one is the traditional weighing balance problem with a twist! I havent been completely able to solve this one. If you are stuck, you may find the simpler versions given below easier to solve.

1. Assume that the setup is similar . You have a digital measuring pan, have 13 stacks of 13 or more coins each with one stack counterfeit. But, now say if you know X and delta, and you are allowed only a single measurement, how would you do it?

2. In a similar setup if you have 13 stacks of 13 coins , but you don’t know X, delta. You know that delta is bounded by +5 and -5. In this case, how will you find the counterfeit stack, X, delta in two measurements?!
**Hint** :  this implies you need to find a way of finding X, delta in one measurement

3. Now consider another variant ( i have been able to solve this one!) . here are two kinds of coins, genuine and counterfeit.  A genuine coin weighs X grams and a counterfeit coin weighs X+delta grams, where X is a positive integer and delta is a non-zero real number strictly between -4 and +4.  You are presented with 13 piles of 4 coins each.  All of the coins are genuine, except for one pile, in which all 4 coins are counterfeit.  You are given a precise scale (say, a digital scale capable of displaying any real number).  You are to determine three things: X, delta, and which pile contains the counterfeit coins.  But you’re only allowed to use the scale twice.